# Standardized-benchmarking-of-alternative-splicing-detection

**ASB.py** is a standardized benchmarking tool designed to unify the output of multiple alternative splicing analysis software, including **MAJIQ**, **PSI-Sigma**, **SUPPA2**, and **rMATS**. By converting results into a unified format, ASB enables downstream comparison, evaluation, and integration of splicing events across different tools.

**Input**

The input consists of the results generated by four software tools. You can use your preferred custom settings for running SUPPA2, rMATS, PSI-Sigma, and MAJIQ. These output results should be saved within folders named after each software, and inside each software folder, there should be subfolders named according to the sample names, as illustrated below:

```
Your input directory
│
├── SUPPA2/
│   └── lab1_M8/
│       └── *.dpsi, *.psivec
│
├── rMATS/
│   └── lab1_M8/
│       ├── A3SS.MATS.JCEC.txt
│       ├── fromGTF.MXE.txt
│       ├── fromGTF.novelSpliceSite.A3SS.txt
│       ├── fromGTF.SE.txt
│       └── ...
│
├── PSI-Sigma/
│   └── lab1_M8/
│       ├── Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.109.sorted.gtf.mapping.txt
│       ├── PSIsigma_r10_ir3.sorted.txt
│       ├── PSIsigma.groupb.txt
│       └── ...
│
└── MAJIQ/
    └── lab1_M8/
        ├── alt3and5prime.tsv
        ├── alt3prime.tsv
        ├── alt5prime.tsv
        └── ...
```
**Output**

After running ASB.py, a uniform_ID column will be added to the output files of each software in their respective folders. 
In addition, a folder named sample_name will be created under your input directory, containing comparison plots of the results from different software, including intersections of detected alternative splicing events, dPSI quantification consistency plots, and intersections of differential splicing events.

**Command and options**

python ASB.py -s SUPPA2 rMATS PSI-Sigma MAJIQ -e SE A5SS A3SS MX RI AF AL -g Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.109.gtf -i Your_input_directory -o Your_output_directory -sn Your_sample_name

List of options available:

-s | --software: space separated list of tools for benchmarking from the following list:SUPPA2, rMATS, PSI-Sigma, MAJIQ.

-o | --output-file: name of the output directory.

-i | --input: input directory containing the output results from different software. Inside this folder, each software’s output should be organized in a subfolder named after the software, i.e., SUPPA2, rMATS, PSI-Sigma, MAJIQ. Within each software folder, there should be subfolders named according to the sample names, i.e., lab1_M8.

-g | ----gtf: path of gene annotation file with GTF format.

-sn | --sample_name: the name of your sample. It should be the same as the name of subfolder in your input directory, i.e., lab1_M8.

-e | --event: space separated list of events to generate from the following list:

SE: Skipping exon (SE) events
A5SS: Alternative 5' (A5) splice sites
A3SS: Alternative 3' (A3) splice sites
MX: Mutually Exclusive (MX) exons
RI: Retained intron (RI)
AF: Alternative first exons
AL: Alternative last exons

